1.what is js?
ans- js is scripting language.it is different from java language.It is object based,lightweight.
It is widely used for client side validation.

2.List some of the js features?
ans-1.lightweight
2.Interpreted language
3.open source
4.Dynamic typed language

3.Who developed JavaScript, and what was the first name of JavaScript?
ans-js was developed by Brendan Eich, who was a netscape programmer.breanden Eich developed this new scripting language
in just ten days in year september 1995.At that time of its launch,js was initially called 
MOCHA.After that it was called live script later known as javascript.
 
4.List some of the advantages of JavaScript.
ans- a.Js is lightweight (less cpu uses)
b.Server interaction is less.
c.Inetactivity is high.
d.Interfaces are richer

5.List some of the disadvantages of JavaScript.
ans-a.it is not supporting multithreading
b.It is not supporting multiprocessing
c.Reading and writing of files is not allowed.
d.It is weakly typed language.

6.Define a named function in JavaScript.
ans- The function which has named at the time of defination is called named function

syntax:
   function demo(){
}
demo()//function called statement

7.Define anonymous function
ans- The function that has no name.These functions are declared dynamically at runtime using function operator instead
of the function declaration.The function operator is more flexible than a function declaration.
It can be easily used in the place of an expression.
Syntax:

 var anno=function(){
} anno();//function caller


8.Can an anonymous function be assigned to a variable?
ans-yes, you can assign an anonymous fucntion to a variable
ex-
 var anno=function(){
} anno();//function caller

9.In JavaScript what is an argument object?
ans-The variables of js represents the arguments that are passed to a function.

10.If we want to return the character from a specific index which method is used?
ans- the js string charAt(index) method is used to find out a char value present at thr specidfic
index.the index starts from o and goes to n-1,where n is the length of the string.
the index value cant be a negative,greater than or equal to length of the string.

11.What is the difference between JavaScript and JScript?
ans- Netscape provided the javascript language.
Microsoft changed the name and called it Jscript to avoid the trademark issue.
In other words you can say jscript is the same as javascript but microsoft provided it.

12.What are the key differences between Java and JavaScript? / How is JavaScript different from Java?
ans-java 
1.java is a complete and strongly typed programming language and it is used for backend coding.
2.Java is an Object oriented programming language(OOPS)
3.java creates applications that can run in any virtual machne(JVM) 
4.The java code needs to be compiled.
5.Java is complete standalone language that can be used in backend coding.
6.java supports multithreading
7.java consumes more memory.

js
1.js is a weakly typed,lighweight programming language(most commonly called as scripting language)
and has more relaxed syntax and rules.
2.js is client side scripting language, and it doesn't fully support the OOPS concept.
3.js code can run only in the browser,but it can now run on the server via Node.js.
4.the js code doesnt require to be compiled.
5.js is assigned within a web page and integrated with its HTML content.
7.js is not supporting multithreading.
8.js code is used in HTML web pages and require less memory.


13.How to use external JavaScript file?
ans- step no 1 we need to create one js file with help of js extension ex- index.js
  link this file with script attribute as src and link.
   <script src="./index.js">

14.Is JavaScript case sensitive language?
ans - yes, js is case sensitive language.

15.why js is weakly typed language?
ans-the js is weakly typed language why because it will accepts any datatype in var ,let and const no need to defined specific datatypes.

16.what are the difference between weakly typed and strongly typed language?
ans- strongly typed
a. variable/exression must have type
b.Type should be matches with the data.
c.Java,c#

weakly typed
a.no types required
b.variable are just alises memory allocation.
c.js etc

17.Why js is lightweight language?
ans - Very less memory uses that why it is called as lightweight language.

18.Can we passed multiple objects in js array?
ans- yes , we can passed multiple objects in js array.

19.What are all the difference between Let,var and const?
ans - Prefer the chart which is given in js notes

20.What is hoisting?
Ans-Hoisting
Js allows a programmer to use a member (variable) before the declaration statement. This characteristic is known as
hoisting.
What makes js hoisting?
It runs js in 2 phases
1. Allocates memory variables and assign value(undefined)
2. Instruction get executed (top to bottom).
Since the declaration is already done we can use.
Understanding execution in js

i. Global execution context is a block of memory
Variable
area

Functional area /
Execution area

The global execution context has 2 parts
ii. Variable area.
iii. Functional area or execution area.

JS engine generally uses 2 phases to execute a js code
i.Phase 1 : all the memory is allocated for the declaration in top to bottom order and assigned with the
default value undefined in variable area of global execution context.

ii.Phase 2 : all the instruction get executed in top to bottom order in execution area of global execution
context.

21.What is BOM?
ans - BOM stands for Browser object model.it provides interaction with the browser.The default object of a
browser is window.So, you can call all the functions of the window by specifying the window or directly.The window
object provides various properties like document,history,screen,navigator,location,innerHTML,innerWidth.

22.What the DOM ? What are all the uses?
ans-DOM stands for document object model
A document is a object created by browser
The document object is the root node of DOM Tree.
Every html elements is considered as node (js object) in DOM.
DOM allows to modify the document content rendered by the browser without reloading the page.
Therefore DOM helps to make a web page dynamic .

Note : any modification done using DOM is not updated to the original HTML page therefore once we
reload a page all the modification done using DOM will be lost.

We can write content on browser page dynamically with the help of write and writeln method of
document object.
Example : to display a message on the browser page from the js code.

23.What is window object?
ans- the window object is created automatically by the browser that represents a window of a
browser.It is not an object of js,it is a browser object.

The window object is used to display the popup dialog box.

ex-
window.alert("below 18+ are not allowed to access this website")//alert popup
    // window.confirm("are you 18+ ?");//confirmation popup
    window.prompt("enter your usename")//user input popup
    window.confirm("are you 18+ ?")

24.How to write a comment in JavaScript?
ans- by using two // we can comment js code

25.How to create a function in JavaScript?
ans - to create function in js we have standard syntax

function name(params){
   instruction
} name()//caller

26.What are the different data types present in JavaScript?
ans-1.primitive
    2.non-primitive

1.primitive
 a.number() we can store all types of number data or represents numeric values
 b.string- it is used to store sequence character.
 c.boolean - The boolean data type is used to represent a boolean values like true and false
         true hold value 1 and false hold value 0
 d.udefined- If you are not defined any value to any datatypes it considered as undefined.
 e.null-The null data type is used to represent a non-existent, null,or a invalid value.

2.non-primitive
 a.array
 b.object

27.What is the difference between == and ===?
ans- The == operator is used to check equality only whereas === checks equality, and alongwith its datatype.

28.How to write HTML code dynamically using JavaScript?

ans- document.getElementById('myLocation').innerHTML="Dynamic html content by using js"
    
29.How to create objects in JavaScript?
ans- 1.By using object literals
     2.by using new keyword
     3.By using object Constructor.

We can can create an object by using  3 ways 

1.By using literals
-Create a single object , using an object literals

Syntax: var obj={
                    color:"white",
                    width:123,
                 }

2.create an object by using new keyword
-Create a single object ,using new keyword.
 
Syntax: var obj1=new Object();

3.create an object by using constructor function


Syntax:
         function person(name,age,sal){
          this.name=name;
          this.age=age;
          this.sal=sal;
} 



30.What is js array and ways to create an array?
ans- Array is a block of memory which is used to store multiple values of hetrogeneous type .


Creation of arrays
In js array is an object.
We can create array object in three different ways.
1.	Using array literal.
a.	Syntax
let arr = [value1, value2,	];

Eg:

let arr = [10,20,30]; console.log(typeof arr);

2.	By creating an instance of array using new operator.

let arr2 = new Array();
   

3.	By using an Array constructor

let arr = new Array(10,20,30);


31.What does the isNaN() function?
ans-The isNaN() function returns true if the variable value is not a number.

function number(num){

 if(isNaN(num)){
   
return "not a number";
}
return "Number"
}
  console.log(number("1000F"));
 
//expexted output  : "Not a number"

console.log(number("1000"));

//expected output :"number"


32.Difference between Client side JavaScript and Server side JavaScript?

ans- client-side-js: The client side js is embedded directly by in the html pages.The 
browser interpret this script at runtime.

Server-side-js: It is also resembles client-side js.It has a relevant js which is to run in a server.
The server-side js are deployed aonly after compilation.

33.What is the difference between undefined value and null value?
ans-1undefined value: A value that is not defined and has no keyword is known as undefined.
 
ex-  var undefined;//undefined

2.null value: A value that is explicitly specified by the keyword "null" is know as null value.

ex- String str=null;// str has a null value

34.What are the pop-up boxes available in JavaScript?

ans-   The window object is used to display the popup dialog box.

ex-
window.alert("below 18+ are not allowed to access this website")//alert popup
    // window.confirm("are you 18+ ?");//confirmation popup
    window.prompt("enter your usename")//user input popup
    window.confirm("are you 18+ ?")
   
35.What is this keyword in JavaScript?

ans- The this keyword is a reference variable that referes to the current object.

var address={
company:"javascript",
state:"MH",
city:"Pune"

fullAdress:function(){

return this.company+" "+this.city+" "+this.state;
}
};
var fetch=address.fullAdress();

document.writeln(fetch);

36.What is the requirement of debugging in JavaScript?
ans- js didnt show any error message in a browser.However, these mistakes can affect
the output.The best practice to find out the error is to debug the code.The code can be debugged
 easily by using web browsers like Google chrome,Mozila firefox
to perform debugging
a.using console.log()
b.using debugger keyword

37.What is the use of Math object in JavaScript?
ans-The js math object provides several constants and methods to perform a mathematical operation.


38.What is the use of a Date object in JavaScript?
ans- The js date object can be used to get a year,month and day.You can display a timer on the
webpage by the help of js date object.

39.What is dynamic typed language?
ans-Dynamically typed language is nothing but the where the interepreter assigns varibles 
a type at runtime based on the variable's value at the time 
ex.js






